# Value Immutability

## primitive Immutability (基本类型)

Values of the primitive types(number, string, boolean , null, and undefined) are already immutable.

## Value to Value

A clear understanding in mind: **value immutability does not mean we can't have values change over the course of our program.**

It also doesn't mean that our variables can't hold different values.

Value immutability **means** that when we need to change to state in our program, we must **create and track** a new value rather tan mutate an existing value.

For example:

```js
function addValue(arr) {
    var newArr = [...arr, 4];
    return newArr;
}
addValue([1,2,3]); // [1,2,3,4]
```

Notice that did not change change the array that `arr` references, but rather created a new array (`newArr`) that contains the existig values plus the new 4 value.

The array that `array` references is actually mutable. We just chose not to mutate it, so we practiced the spirit of value immutability.

We can use the **copy-instead-of-mutate strategy** for objects, too.

```js
function updateLastLogin(user) {
  var newUserRecord = Object.assign({}, user);
  newUserRecord.lastLogin = Date.now();
  return newUserRecord;
}
```

### Non-Local

Non-primitive values are held by reference, and when passed as arguments, it's the reference that's copied, not the value itself.

If passed as arguments, non-primitive values become non-local. Potentially the entire program has to **be considered to understand where such a value will changed or not**. (问题所在)

Consider:

```js
var arr = [1,2,3];

foo(arr);

console.log(arr[0]);
```

Ostensibly(表面上看), you're expecting arr[0] to still be the value `1`. But is it?You don't know, becase `foo(..)` might mutate the array using the reference copy you pass to it.

**A trick to avoid such a urprise** (**策略**)

```js
var arr = [1,2,3];

foo([...arr]);

console.log(arr[0]);
```

## Reassignment

A constant is : a variable that cannot be reassigned.

`const` has nothing to do with the nature of the value. (这个 `const` 常量声明与该值无关)

```js
const x = [2];
```

I think you should use `var` or `let` for declaring variables to hold values that you intend to mutate. 

I think that actually is a **much clearer signal** of your intent than using const.

`const` is not all that useful. It creates unnecessary confusion and restricts us in inconvenient ways. I only use `const` for simple constants like:

```js
const PI = 3.141592;
```

The thing we really should worry more about is not whether our variables get reassigned, but whether our values get mutated.

### It's Freezing in Here

There's a cheap and simple way to turn a mutable object/array/function into an 'immutable value'(of sorts):

```js
var x = Object.freeze([2]);
```

`Object.freeze(..)` provides shallow, naive immutability, but contrasted with `const` ,`Object.freeze(..)` actually gives you an immutable value.

Consider:

```js
var arr = Object.freeze([1,2,3]);

foo(arr);

console.log(arr[0]); //1
```

Now `arr[0]` is quite reliably `1`

This is so important because it makes reasoning (推断) about our code much easier when we know we can trust that a value doesn't change when passed somewhere that we do not see or control.

## performance
创造一个新值代替修改已经存在的值，它对于性能的影响是什么呢？

性能：CPU、内存

视情况而定。

1. Have a single state change that happens **once** (or een a couple of times) is almost certainly not a concern.
2. Such an operation is goning to occur f**requently, or specifically happen** ,then cosidering both performance and memory is a totally vaild concern.

Think about a specialized data structure that's like an array, but that you want to be able to make changes to and have each change behave implicitly as if the result was a new array.

Such a special array data structure could store the original value and then track each change made as a delta from the previous version.

**Pragmatically, we should probably use a library that already does this well.** One great option is [Imutable.js](https://immutable-js.github.io/immutable-js/)

When changes to a value are few or infrequent and performance is less of a concern, we'd use the lighter-weight solution, sticking with built-in `Object.freeze(..)` as discussed earlier.

## Treatment

We should treat all received values as immutable to avoid side effects and remain pure.

```js
function updateLastLogin(user) {
  var newUserRecord = Object.assign({}, user);
  newUserRecord.lastLogin = Date.now();
  return newUserRecord;
}
```

Contrast that with this implementation.

```js
function updateLastlogin(user) {
  user.lastLogin = Date.now();
  return user;
}
```

That version is lot easier to write, and even peerforms better. But not only does this approach make `updateLastLogin(..)` impure, it also mutates a value in a way that makes both the reading of this code more complicated.

**We should treat `user` as immutable**, always, because at this point of reading the code we do not know where the value comes from, or what potential issues we may cause if we mutate it.

Nice examles of this approach can be seen in **various built-in methods of the Js array**, such as `concat(..)` and `slice(..)`:

```js
var arr = [1,2,3,4,5];

var arr2 = arr.concat(6);

arr; // [1,2,3,4,5]
arr2; // [1,2,3,4,5,6]

var arr3 = arr2.slice(1); 

arr2; // [1,2,3,4,5,6]
arr3; //[2,3,4,5,6]
```

Other **array prototype methods** that treat the value instance as immutatable and **return a new array** instead of mutating: `map(..)` and `filter(..)`. The `reduce(..)`/`reduceRight(..)` utilities also avoid mutating the instance, though they don't by default return a new array.

Unfortunately, for historical reasons, quite a few other array  methods are impure mutators of their instance: 
- `splice(..)`
- `pop(..)`
- `push(..)`
- `shift(..)`
- `unshift(..)`
- `reverse(..)`
- `sort(..)`
- `fill(..)`

**Be disciplined and always treat received values as immutable, whether they are or not. **That effort will improve the readability and trustability of your code.

## Summary

1. 值的不可变性表示创建一个新的值，并且追踪在程序运行阶段值的变化，而不是修改已经存在的值。
2. `const` 声明对于标识符目的和强制不可变性的能力普遍存在错误的看法。事实上，`const` 基本与值的不可变性无关，并且它的用法还可能产生更多的迷惑。更好的方法，`Object.freeze(..)` 提供了一个很好的内置方法，去设置一个数组或者对象隐式的值不可变性。在很多情况下，这中方法是足够有用的。
3. 对于频繁发生的值的改变，创建一个新的数组或者对象是一个不好的选择。在这种情况下，使用一个函数库中的不可变数据结构是一个好的想法。
4. The importance of value immutability on code readability is less in the inability to change a value, and more in the discipline to treat a value as immutable.